                        CHAPTER 9: DOCUMENT PREPARATION



One of the first applications of the UNIX system was editing and formatting
documents; indeed, Bell Labs management was persuaded to buy the first PDP-11
hardware by promises of a document preparation system, not an operating
system. (Fortunately, they got more than they bargained for.)

The first formatting program was called roff. It was small, fast, and easy to
work with, so long as one was producing simple documents on a line printer. The
next formatter, nroff, by Joe Ossanna, was much more ambiguous. Rather than
trying to provide every style of document that users might ever want, Ossana
made nroff programmable, so that many formatting tasks were handled by
programming in the nroff language.

When a small typesetter was acquired in 1973, nroff was extended to handle the
multiple sizes and fonts and the richer character set that the typesetter
provided. The new program was called troff (which by analogy to "en-roff" is
pronounced "tee-roff.") nroff and troff are basically the same program, and
accept the same input language; nroff ignores commands like size changes that it
can't honor. We will talk mainly about troff but most of our comments apply
nroff as well, subject to the limitations of output devices.

The great strength of troff is the flexibility of the basic language and its
programmability --- it can be made to do almost any formatting task. But the
flexibility comes at a high price --- troff is often astonishingly hard to
use. It is fair to say that almost all of the UNIX document preparation software
is designed to cover up some part of naked troff.

One example is page layout --- the general style of a document, what the titles,
headings and paragraphs look like, where the page numbers appear, how big the
pages are, and so on. These are not built in; they have to be programmed. Rather
than forcing each user to specify all of these details in every document,
however, a package of standard formatting commands is provided. A user of the
package does not say "the next line is to be centered, in bigger letters, and in
a bold font." Instead, the user says "the next line is a title," and the
packaged definition of the style of a title is used. Users talk about the
logical components of a document --- titles, headings, paragraphs, footnotes,
etc. --- instead of sizes, fonts, and positions.
