
Unfortunately, what started out as a "standard" package of formatting commands
it no longer standard: there are several packages in wide use, plus many local
variants. We'll talk about two general-purpose packages here: ms, the original
"standard," and mm, a newer version that is standard input System V. We'll also
describe the man package for printing manual pages.

We will concentrate on ms because it is standard in the 7th Edition, it
exemplifies all such packages, and it is powerful enough to do the job: we use
it to typeset this book. But we did have to extend it a bit, for example, by
adding a command to handle words in this font in the text.

This experience is typical --- the macro packages are adequate for many
formatting tasks, but it is sometimes necessary to revert to the underlying
troff commands. We will describe only a small part of troff here.

Although troff provides the ability to control output format completely, it's
far too hard to use for complicated material like mathematics, tables, and
figures. Each of these areas is just as difficult as page layout. The solution
to these problems takes a different form, however. Instead of packages of
formatting commands, there are special-purpose languages for mathematics, tables
and figures that make it easy to describe what is wanted. Each is handled by a
separate program that translates its language into troff commands. The programs
communicate through pipes.

These preprocessors are good examples of the UNIX approach at work --- rather
than making troff even bigger and more complicated than it is, separate programs
cooperate with it. (Of course, the language development tools described in
Chapter 8 have been used to help with the implementations.) We will describe two
programs: tbl, which formats tables, and eqn, which formats mathematical
expressions.

We will also try to give hints about document preparation and the supporting
tools. Our examples throughout the chapter will be a document describing the hoc
language of Chapter 8 and a hoc manual page. The document is printed in Appendix
2.


9.1 The ms macro package

The crucial notion in the macro packages is that a document is described in
terms of its logical parts --- title, section headings, paragraphs --- not by
details of spacing, fonts and sizes of letters. This saves you from some very
hard work, and insulates your document from irrelevant details; in fact, by
using a different set of macro definitions with the same logical names, you can
make your document appear quite different. For example, a document might go
through the stages of technical report, conference paper, journal article and
book chapter with the same formatting commands, but formatted with four
different macro packages.

Input to troff, whether or not a macro package is involved, is ordinary text
interspersed with formatting commands. There are two kinds of
