

Miscellaneous commands

Footnotes are introduced with .FS and terminated with .FE. You are reponsible
for any identifying mark like an asterisk or a dagger.+ This footnote was
created with

        identifying mark like an asterisk or a dagger.\(dg
        .FS
        \(dg Like this one.
        .FE
        This footnote was created with ...

Indented paragraphs, perhaps with a number or other mark in the margin, are
created with the .IP command. To make this:

(1)First little paragraph.
(2)Second paragraph, which we make longer to show that it will be indented on
   the second line as well as the first.

requires the input

        .IP (1)
        First little paragraph.
        .IP(2)
        (2)Second paragraph, ...

A .PP or .LP (left-justified paragraph) terminates an .IP. The .IP argument can
be any string; use quotes to protect blanks if necessary. A second argument can
be used to specify the amount of indent.

The command pair .KS and .KE causes text to be kept together; text enclosed
between these commands will be forced onto a new page if it won't all fit on the
current page. If .KF is used instead of .KS, the text will float past subsequent
text to the top of the next page if necessary to keep it on one page. We used
.KF for all the tables in this book.

You can change most of ms's default values by setting number registers, which
are troff variables used by ms. Perhaps the most common are the registers that
control the size of text and the spacing between lines. Normal text size (what
you are reading now) is "10 points," where a point is about 1/72 of an inch, a
unit inherited from the printing industry. Lines are normally printed at
12-point separation. To change these, for example to 9 and 11 (as in our
displays), set the number registers PS and VS with

        .nr PS 9
        .nr VS 11

Other number registers include LL for line length, PI for paragraph indent, and
PD for the separation between paragraphs. These take effect at the next .PP or
.LP.

----------------
+ Like this one
