
back on. The command .ce centers the next line.

The command .bp begins a new page. The command .sp causes a single blank line to
appear in the output. A .sp command can be followed by an argument to specify
how many blank lines or how much space.

        .sp 3                           Leave 3 blank lines
        .sp .5                          Leave blank half-line
        .sp 1.5i                        Leave 1.5 inches
        .sp 3p                          Leave 3 points
        .sp 3.1c                        Leave 3.1 centimeters

Extra space at the bottom of a page is discarded, so a large .sp is equivalent
to a .bp.

The .ta command sets tag stops (which are initialized to every half inch).

        .ta n n n ...

sets tab stops at the specified distances from the left margin; as with .sp,
each number n is in inches if followed by 'i'. A tab stop suffixed with R will
right-justify the text at the next tab stop; C causes a centered tab.

The command .ps n sets the point size to n; the command .ft X sets the font to
X. the rules about incremental sizes and returning to the previous value are the
same as for \s and \f.


Defining macros

Defining macros in full generality would take us much further into the
intricacies of troff than it appropriate, but we can illustrate some of the
basics. For example, here is the definition of .CW:

        .de CW                   Start a definition
        \&\f(CW\\$1\fP\\$2       Font changes around first argument
        ..                       End of definition

\$n produces the value of the n-th argument when the macro is invoked; it is
empty if no n-th argument was provided. The double \ delays evaluation of \$n
during macro definition. The \& prevents the argument from being interpreted as
a troff command, in case it begins with a period, as in

        .CW .sp


9.3 The tbl and eqn preprocessors

troff is a big and complicated program, both inside and out, so modifying it to
take on a new task is not something to be undertaken lightly. Accordingly the
development of programs for typesetting mathematics and tables took a different
approach --- the design of separate languages implemented by separate programs
eqn and tbl that act as "preprocessors" for troff. In effect, troff is an
assembly language for a typesetting machine; and eqn and tbl compile into it.
