
eqn came first. It was the first use of yacc for a non-programming language.+
tbl came next, in the same spirit as eqn, though with an unrelated syntax. tbl
doesn't use yacc, since its grammar is simple enough that it's not worthwhile.

The UNIX pipe facility strongly suggests the division into separate
programs. Besides factoring the job into pieces (which was necessary anyway ---
troff by itself was already nearly as large as a program could be on a PDP-11),
pipes also reduce the communication between the pieces and between the
programmers involved. This latter point is significant --- one doesn't need
acesss to source code to make a preprocessor. Furthermore, with pipes there are
no giant intermediate files to worry about, unless the components are
intentionally run separately for debugging.

There are probelms when separate programs communicate by pipes. Speed suffers
somewhat, since there is a lot of input and output: both eqn and tbl typically
cause an eight-to-one expansion from input to output. More importantly,
information flows only one direction. There is no way, for example, that eqn can
determine the current font size, which leads to some awkwardness in the
language. Finally, error reporting is hard; it is sometimes difficult to relate
a diagnostic from troff back to the eqn or tbl problem that caused it.

Nevertheless, the benefits of separation far outweigh the drawbacks, so several
other preprocessors have been written, based on the same model.


Tables

Let us begin a brief discussion of tbl, since the first thing we want to show is
a table of operators from the hoc document. tbl reads its input files or the
standard input and converts text between the commands. .TS (table start) and
.TE(table end) into the troff commands to print the table, aligning columns and
taking care of all the typographical details. The .TS and .TE lines are also
copied through, so a macro package can provide suitable definitions for them,
for example to keep the table on one page and set off from surrounding text.

Although you will need to look at the tbl manual to produce complicated tables,
one example is enough to show most of the common features. Here is one from the
hoc document:


----------------
+ It is improbable that eqn would exist if yacc had not been available at the
right time.
