
well as the first. A font can be defined for a column; the tbl specification
lfCW prints a left-justified column in the CW font.

The text of the table follows the formatting information. Tab characters separte
columns, and some troff commands such as .sp are understood inside tables. (Note
a couple of appearances of \&: unsupported leading - and = signs in columns tell
tbl to draw lines across the table at that point.)

tbl produces a wider variety of tables than this simple example would suggest:
it will fill text in boxes, vertically justify column headings, and so on. The
easiest way to use it for complicated tables is to look for a similar example in
the manual in Volume 2A of the UNIX Programmer's Manual and adapt the commands.


Mathematical expressions

The second troff preprocessor is eqn, which converts a language description
mathematical expressions into the troff commands to print them. It automatically
handles font and size changes, and also provides names for standard mathematical
characters. eqn input usually appears between .EQ and .EN lines, analogous to
tbl's .TS and .TE. For example,

        .EQ
        x sub i
        .EN

produces x_i. If the ms macro package is used, the equation is printed as a
"display," and an optional argument to .EQ specifies an equation number. For
example, the Cauchy integral formula

                                                                         (9.1)

is written as

        .EQ (9.1)
        f( zeta ) ~=~ 1 over {2 pi i} int from C
            f(z) over {z - zeta} dz
        .EN

The eqn language is based on the way that mathematics is spoken aloud. One
difference between spoken mathematics and eqn input is that braces {} are
parentheses of eqn --- they override the default precedence rules of the
language --- but ordinary parentheses have no special significance. Blanks,
however, are significant. Note that the first zeta is surrounded by blanks in
the example above: keywords such as zeta and over are only recognized when
surrounded by blanks and braces, neither of which appear in the output. To force
blank page into the output, use a tilde character ~ as in ~=~. To get braces,
use "{" and "}'.

There are several classes of eqn keywords. Greek letters are spelled out, in
lower or upper case, as in lambda and LAMBDA (lambda and LAMBDA). Other
