
        .TH COMMAND section-number

names the command the specifies the section number. The various .SH lines
identify sections of the manual page. The NAME and synopsis sections are
special; the others contain ordinary prose. The NAME section names the command
(this time in lower case) and provides a one-line description of it. The
SYNOPSIS section names the options, but doesn't describe them. As in any
section, the input is free form, so font changes can be specified with the .B,
.I and .R macros. In the SYNOPSIS section, the name and options are bold, and
the rest of the information is roman. The ed(1) NAME and SYNOPSIS sections, for
example, are:

        .SH NAME
        ed \- text editor
        .SH SYNOPSIS
        .B ed
        [
        .B \-
        ][
        .B \-x
        ][ name ]

These come out as:

        NAME
            ed - text editor
        SYNOPSIS
            ed [ - ][ -x ][ name ]

Note the use of \- rather than a plain -.

The DESCRIPTION section describes the command and its options. In most cases, it
is a description of the command, not the language the command defines. The cc(1)
manual page doesn't define the C language; it says how to run the cc command to
compile C programs, how to invoke the optimizer, where the output is left, and
so on. The language is specified in the C reference manual, cited in the SEE
ALSO section of cc(1). On the other hand, the categories are not absolute:
man(7) is a description of the language of manual macros.

By convention, in the DESCRIPTION section, command names and the tags for
options (such as "name" in the ed page) are printed in italics. The macros .I
(print first argument in italics) and .IR (print first argument in italics,
second in roman) make this easy. The .IR macro is there because the .I macro is
the man package doesn't share with that in ms the undocumented but convenient
treatment of the second argument.

The FILES section mentions any files implicitly used by the command. DIAGNOSTICS
need only be included if there is unusual output produced by the command. This
may be diagnostic messages, exit status or surprising
