
        $ man style diction wwb

or by listing /bin and /usr/bin


History and bibliographic notes

troff, written by the late Joe Ossanna for the Graphics Systems CAT-4
typesetter, has a long lineage, going back to RUNOFF, which was written by
J. E. Saltzer for CTSS at MIT in the early 1960's. These programs share the
basic command syntax and ideas, although troff is certainly the most complicated
and powerful, and the presence of eqn and the other proprocessors adds
significantly to tis utility. There are several new typesetting programs with
more civilized input format: TEX, by Don Knuth (TEX and Metafont: New Directions
in Typesetting, Digital Press, 1970), and Scribe, By Brian Reid ("Scribe: a
high-level approach to computer document formatting," 7th Symposium on the
Principles of Programming Languages, 1980), are probably the best known. The
paper "Document Formatting Systems: Survey, Concepts and Issues" by Richard
Furuta, Jeffrey Scofield, and Alan Show (Computing Surveys, September, 1982) is
a good survey of the field.

The original paper on eqn is "A system for typesetting mathematics," (CACM,
March 1975), by Brian Kernighan and Lorinda Cherry. The ms macro package, tbl
and refer are all by Mike Lest; the are documented only in the UNIX Programmer's
Manual, Volume 2A.

pic is described in "PIC --- a language for typesetting graphics," by Brian
Kernighan, Software --- Practice and Experience, January, 1982. ideal is
described in "A high-level language for describing pictures," by Chris Van Wyk,
ACM Transactions on Graphics, April, 1982.

spell is a command that turned from a shell file, written by Steve Johnson, into
a C program, by Doug McIlroy. The 7th Edition spell uses a hashing mechanism for
quick lookup, and rules for automatically stripping suffixes and prefixes to
keep the dictionary small. See "Development of a spelling list," M. D. McIlroy,
IEEE Transactions on Communications, January, 1982.

The style and diction programs are described in "Computer aids for writers," by
Lorinda Cheery, SIGPLAN Symposium on Text Manipulation, Portland, Oregon (June
1982).
