                           APPENDIX 1: EDITOR SUMMARY



The "standard" UNIX text editor is a program called ed, originally written by
Ken Thompson. ed was designed in the early 1970's, for a computing environment
on tiny machines (the first UNIX system limited user programs to 8K bytes) with
hard-copy terminals running at very low speed (10-15 characters per second). It
was derived from an earlier editor called qed that was popular at the time.

As technology has advanced, ed has remained much the same. You are almost
certain to find on your system other editors with appealing features; of these,
"visual" or "screen" editing, in which the screen of your terminal reflects your
editing changes as you make them, is probably the most common.

So why are we spending time on such an old-fashioned program? The answer is that
ed, in spite of its age, does some things really well. It is available on all
UNIX systems; you can be sure that it will be around as you move from one system
to another. It works well over slow-speed telephone lines and with any kind of
terminal. ed is also easy to run from a script; most screen editors assume that
they are driving a terminal, and can't conveniently take their input from a
file.

ed provides regular expressions for pattern matching. Regular expressions based
on those in ed permeate the system: grep and sed use almost identical ones;
egrep, awk and lex extend them; the shell uses a different syntax but the same
ideas for filename matching. some screen editors have a "line mode" that reverts
to a version of ed so that you can use regular expressions.

Finally, ed runs fast. It's quite possible to invoke ed, make a one-line change
to a file, write out the new version, and quit, all before a bigger and fancier
screen editor has even started.


Basics

ed edits one file at a time. It works on a copy of the file; to record your
changes in the original file, you have to give an explicit command. ed provides
commands to manipulate consecutive lines or lines that match a pattern, and to
make changes within lines.

Each ed command is a single character, usually a letter. Most commands
