
    s/\(...\)\(.*\)/\2\1/   Move first 3 characters to end
    /\(..*\)\1/             Find lines that contain a repeated adjacent string


File handling commands

The read and write commands r and w can be preceded by line numbers:

    nr file     Read file; add it after line n; set dot to last line read
    m,nw file   Write lines m-n to file; dot is unchanged
    m,nW file   Append lines m-n to file; dot is unchanged

The default range for w and W is the whole file. The default n for r is $, an
unfortunate choice. Beware.

ed remembers the first file name used, either from the command line or from an r
or w command. The file command f prints or changes the name of the remembered
file:

    f           Print name of remembered file
    f file      Set remembered name to 'file'

The edit command e reinitializes ed with the remembered file or with a new one:

    e           Begin editing remembered file
    e file      Begin editing 'file'

The e command is protected the same way as q is: if you haven't written your
changes, the first e will draw an error message. E reinitializes regardless of
changes. One some systems, ed is linked to e so that same command (e filename)
can be used inside and outside the editor.


Encryption

Files may be encrypted upon writing and decrypted upon reading by giving the x
command; a password will be asked for. The encryption is the same as in
crypt(1). The x command has been changed to X (upper case) on some systems, to
make it harder to encrypt unintentionally.


Summary of commands

Table 2 is a summary of ed commands, and Table 3 lists the valid line
numbers. Each command is preceded by zero, one or two line numbers that indicate
how many line numbers can be provided, and the default values if they are
not. Most commands can be followed by a p to print the last line affected, or l
for list format. Dot is normally set to the last line affected; it is unchanged
by f, k, w, x, =, and !.


Exercise. when you think you know ed, try the editor quiz; see quiz(6).
